#2.0.0

This includes an [upgrade to Application Insights Agent v3](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-in-process-agent).
No new version of the SDK has been released and this remains at 2.6.2. Using SDK 2.6.2 with agent 3.0.0 is a supported configuration.

Note that the environment variables the Application Insights agent accepts have changed. `APPLICATION_INSIGHTS_IKEY` is no longer supported.
It can be replaced by `APPINSIGHTS_INSTRUMENTATIONKEY`, or you can switch to using `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` and a connection string
which is the recommended method.
See [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string) for details about connection strings.

The configuration file has moved from `AI-Agent.xml` to `applicationinsights.json`.

Attaching the application version number to all traces via the context no longer works - this can be worked around by making `BUILD_NUMBER`
available as an environment variable which is then picked up by the custom dimension configuration below.

Minimum suggested configuration file:
```
{
  "role": {
    "name": "application-name"
  },
  "customDimensions": {
    "application_Version": "${BUILD_NUMBER}"
  },
  "selfDiagnostics": {
    "destination": "console"
  }
}
```

This also includes an [upgrade to Spring Boot 2.4.0](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/releases/tag/v2.4.0)
and removing old suppressed vulnerabilities.

[Spring Boot Upgrade guide](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-2.4-Release-Notes#upgrading-from-spring-boot-23)

Spring Boot 2.4.0 has changed the way in that property files are processed. If you are not ready to update an application to the new way,
legacy mode can be enabled by adding the following to the `application.yml` file,
as mentioned in the [Spring Boot Config Data Migration Guide](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Spring-Boot-Config-Data-Migration-Guide):

```
spring:
    config:
       use-legacy-processing: true
```