#3.0.0

This includes an [upgrade to Application Insights Agent v3](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-in-process-agent).
No new version of the SDK has been released and this remains at 2.6.2. Using SDK 2.6.2 with agent 3.0.0 is a supported configuration.

Note that the environment variables the Application Insights agent accepts have changed. `APPLICATION_INSIGHTS_IKEY` is no longer supported.
It can be replaced by `APPINSIGHTS_INSTRUMENTATIONKEY`, or you can switch to using `APPLICATIONINSIGHTS_CONNECTION_STRING` and a connection string
which is the recommended method.
See [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/sdk-connection-string) for details about connection strings.

The configuration file has moved from `AI-Agent.xml` to `applicationinsights.json`.

Attaching the application version number to all traces via the context no longer works - this can be worked around by making `BUILD_NUMBER`
available as an environment variable which is then picked up by the custom dimension configuration below.  The `ContextInitializer` bean
can then be removed.

The `WebTelemetryModule` no longer listens to requests, so can't be used to augment the requests with custom information.
Instead a custom `HandlerInterceptor` has to be added instead to modify the request telemetry.
See https://github.com/ministryofjustice/offender-case-notes/pull/134/files for an example PR with the upgrade changes required, with
extra fixes for custom dimensions in https://github.com/ministryofjustice/offender-case-notes/pull/139/files.

Minimum suggested configuration file:
```
{
  "role": {
    "name": "application-name"
  },
  "customDimensions": {
    "service.version": "${BUILD_NUMBER}"
  },
  "instrumentation": {
    "logging": {
      "level": "DEBUG"
    }
  },
  "selfDiagnostics": {
    "destination": "console"
  }
}
```

Upgrade Spring Boot to version [2.4.2](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/releases/tag/v2.4.2)

## Version upgrades

- org.owasp.dependencycheck version [6.0.4 -> 6.0.5]
- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-gradle-plugin [2.4.1 -> 2.4.2]
- org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-gradle-plugin [1.4.21 -> 1.4.21-2]
- io.spring.dependency-management:io.spring.dependency-management.gradle.plugin [1.0.10.RELEASE -> 1.0.11.RELEASE]

Test dependencies:
- org.mockito:mockito-junit-jupiter [3.6.28 -> 3.7.7]
- org.assertj:assertj-core [3.18.1 -> 3.19.0]
- net.javacrumbs.json-unit:json-unit-assertj [2.22.0 -> 2.22.1]
