# 5.0.0

## Upgrade to spring-boot 3.0.2
This includes an [upgrade to Spring Boot 3.0.2](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/releases/tag/v3.0.2)

## Upgrade to Kotlin 1.8.0
This includes an [upgrade to Kotlin 1.8.0](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/releases/tag/v1.8.0/)

## Application Insights SQS Spring scheduling bug
There is a bug in application insights in that it fills up the logs with `InProc` dependencies - see https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/issues/2870.
To workaround this bug we have had to temporarily disable the collection of spring scheduling events within application insights - see https://github.com/ministryofjustice/offender-events-ui/blob/main/applicationinsights.json#L9-L11 for example code.

## Removal of old application insights SDK
The old version of application insights SDK shouldn't have been separately included.  It was superseded a while ago by
an application insights core dependency.  The new dependency doesn't integrate with spring boot so the TelemetryClient
needs to be created using the no args constructor and manually injected as a bean.  The java agent will then replace
the blank implementation at runtime.
This means that testing is easier as the bean will always exist and be a dummy implementation by default.

Furthermore, most calls (apart from custom events) can be replaced by calls to Span - see
[send custom telemetry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/java-in-process-agent#send-custom-telemetry-by-using-the-application-insights-classic-sdk)
for more information.  Span has a dummy implementation by default too.

To now set the current `user_Id` in requests call
```kotlin
Span.current().setAttribute("enduser.id", it)
```

## Java 17 requirement
Starting from 5.0.0 we now target Java 17 instead of Java 11 with this plugin.

## Scripted upgrade
There is a script to help with the upgrade - see https://github.com/ministryofjustice/hmpps-tech-docs/blob/8f4722c642113fb71829a5ec396c4c9dea31d965/scripts/upgrade-spring-boot-3.bash

## Version upgrades

- org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-reflect [1.7.21 -> 1.8.0]
- org.jetbrains.kotlin:kotlin-scripting-compiler-embeddable [1.7.21 -> 1.8.0]
- org.jetbrains.kotlin.jvm:org.jetbrains.kotlin.jvm.gradle.plugin [1.7.21 -> 1.8.0]
- com.fasterxml.jackson.module:jackson-module-kotlin [2.13.4 -> 2.14.1]

## Test upgrades

- org.owasp:dependency-check-core [7.3.2 -> 7.4.4]
- org.owasp:dependency-check-gradle [7.3.2 -> 7.4.4]
- org.owasp.dependencycheck:org.owasp.dependencycheck.gradle.plugin [7.3.2 -> 7.4.4]
- com.github.ben-manes.versions [0.42.0 -> 0.44.0]
- com.adarshr.test-logger [3.0.0 -> 3.2.0]
- org.mockito.kotlin:mockito-kotlin [4.0.0 -> 4.1.0]
- org.mockito:mockito-junit-jupiter [4.9.0 -> 4.11.0]
- org.eclipse.jgit:org.eclipse.jgit [6.3.0.202209071007-r -> 6.4.0.202211300538-r]
