# 7.1.4

## Pin swagger-ui to latest version 5.20.0
[CVE-2025-26791](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-26791)

From the CVE:
> DOMPurify before 3.2.4 has an incorrect template literal regular expression, sometimes leading to mutation cross-site scripting (mXSS).
> Swagger-ui 5.20.0 includes DOMPurify 3.2.4 which fixes this issue.

This change causes a problem in reactive (WebFlux) projects as it still uses the 5.18.3 version.  To work around that
issue set:
```yaml
springdoc.swagger-ui.version: 5.20.0
```
in your `application.yml`.

## Issues with the gradle git plugin in multi-project builds
The upgrade to gradle git properties 2.5.0 [causes issues](https://github.com/n0mer/gradle-git-properties/issues/240)
in multi-project builds.

In each of the sub-projects set
```kotlin
configure<com.gorylenko.GitPropertiesPluginExtension> {
  dotGitDirectory.set(File("${project.rootDir}/.git"))
}
```
so that the correct directory is then recognised.

## Version upgrades
- com.gorylenko.gradle-git-properties:com.gorylenko.gradle-git-properties.gradle.plugin [2.4.2 -> 2.5.0]
- org.jlleitschuh.gradle.ktlint:org.jlleitschuh.gradle.ktlint.gradle.plugin [12.1.2 -> 12.2.0]
- org.junit.jupiter:junit-jupiter [5.11.4 -> 5.12.0]
- org.mockito:mockito-junit-jupiter [5.15.2 -> 5.16.0]

# 7.1.3

## Upgrade to spring-boot 3.4.3
This includes an [upgrade to Sprine Boot 3.4.3](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/releases/tag/v3.4.3)

## Version upgrades
 - org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-gradle-plugin [3.4.2 -> 3.4.3]

# 7.1.2

## Pin json-smart to latest version 2.5.2
[CVE-2024-57699] (https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-57699)

From the CVE:
>A security issue was found in Netplex Json-smart 2.5.0 through 2.5.1. 
> When loading a specially crafted JSON input, containing a large number of ’{’, a stack exhaustion can be trigger, 
> which could allow an attacker to cause a Denial of Service (DoS). 
> This issue exists because of an incomplete fix for CVE-2023-1370.

Also added the suppression for json-smart 2.5.2 as Sonartype
https://ossindex.sonatype.org/component/pkg:maven/net.minidev/json-smart@2.5.2 is reporting as vulnerable even though it isn’t.

Remove suppression for netty 4.1.118.Final as Sonartype has classed this as the fixed version

# 7.1.1

## Pin netty to latest version 4.1.118.Final
[CVE-2025-24970](http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/vuln/detail?vulnId=CVE-2025-24970)

From the CVE:
> Netty, an asynchronous, event-driven network application framework, 
> has a vulnerability starting in version 4.1.91.Final and prior to version 4.1.118.Final. 
> When a special crafted packet is received via SslHandler it doesn't correctly handle validation 
> of such a packet in all cases which can lead to a native crash. 
> Version 4.1.118.Final contains a patch. As workaround its possible to 
> either disable the usage of the native SSLEngine or change the code manually.

Also added the supression for netty 4.1.118.Final as Sonartype 
https://ossindex.sonatype.org/component/pkg:maven/io.netty/netty-handler@4.1.118.Final is reporting as vulnerable even though it isn’t. 

# 7.1.0

An issue with the Application Insights agent upgrade has been found in this release. It causes
```
Unsupported text Content-Type Type: class com.azure.monitor.opentelemetry.autoconfigure.implementation.quickpulse.swagger.models.ServiceError
2025-02-12 08:28:49.010Z WARN  c.a.m.o.a.i.q.QuickPulsePingSender - In the last 5 minutes, the following operation has failed 15 times (out of 16): Pinging live metrics endpoint:
 * Unsupported text Content-Type Type: class com.azure.monitor.opentelemetry.autoconfigure.implementation.quickpulse.swagger.models.ServiceError (https://northeurope.livediagnostics.monitor.azure.com/QuickPulseService.svc) (15 times)
```
to appear every minute in the kubernetes pod logs.  This appears to only occur if the connection string doesn't contain the ingestion or live endpoint.  The workaround until it is fixed by Microsoft is therefore to provide those two extra fields.  See https://github.com/microsoft/ApplicationInsights-Java/issues/4079#issuecomment-2657485812 for more information. The full recommended connection string can be found in the top right of the Application Insights (not Log Analytics) home page for the selected environment.

Suppression for
 - [CVE-2024-57699](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-57699) as we don't parse untrusted JSON.

## Upgrade to Kotlin 2.1.10
This includes an [upgrade to Kotlin 2.1.10](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/releases/tag/v2.1.10/)

## Version upgrades
 - com.google.code.gson:gson [2.11.0 -> 2.12.1]
 - com.gradle.plugin-publish:com.gradle.plugin-publish.gradle.plugin [1.3.0 -> 1.3.1]
 - com.microsoft.azure:applicationinsights-agent [3.6.2 -> 3.7.0]
 - io.opentelemetry:opentelemetry-api [1.43.0 -> 1.46.0]

# 7.0.0

## Breaking changes

### ktlint

This upgrade to Kotlin 2.1.0 breaks the ktlint Spring Boot Plugin as detailed in this issue: https://github.com/JLLeitschuh/ktlint-gradle/issues/809

To fix this we've upgraded the version of ktlint to the latest version. Unfortunately this causes `ktlintCheck` formatting issues on most projects.

**Action required**

- run command `./gradlew ktlintFormat`

### OpenAPI Specifications

The version of OpenAPI pulled in by Spring (3.1.0) brings some changes that might be breaking depending upon your usage.

Full details on the changes can be found [here](https://dev.to/mikeralphson/openapi-31-the-gnarly-bits-58d0).

**Action required**

- If you have an `OpenApiCustomizer` relying on the old schema classes, this might have changed to JsonSchema so you'll need a different approach.
- Allowable values declared for enums only works with type `String`, otherwise classes generated from the spec. do not compile.

## Version upgrades

Gradle [8.11.1 -> 8.12]

### Plugins
- Kotlin jvm [2.0.21 -> 2.1.0]
- com.github.ben-manes.versions [0.51.0 -> 0.52.0]

### Transitive Dependencies
- ktlint [1.0.1 -> 1.5.0]
- OpenAPI [3.0.1 -> 3.1.0]

### Dependencies
- org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-gradle-plugin [3.4.1 -> 3.4.2]
- com.github.ben-manes:gradle-versions-plugin [0.51.0 -> 0.52.0]

### Test Dependencies
- org.mockito:mockito-junit-jupiter [5.14.2 -> 5.15.2]
- org.assertj:assertj-core [3.27.0 -> 3.27.3]
